README.rst, before:

.. |DiscordLogo| image:: https://img.icons8.com/color/48/000000/discord-logo.png
   :target: https://discordapp.com

|DiscordLogo| OH-Bot
======================================

The Discord Office Hour Butler
------------------------------

.. raw:: html

   <p align=center style="font-size:large">
      <a href=#purpose>Purpose</a> • 
      <a href=#overview>Overview</a> • 
      <a href=#quickstart>Quick Start</a> • 
      <a href=https://ecs-oh-bot.github.io/OH-Bot/docs/build/html/index.html>Docs</a> •
      <a href=#license>License</a>
   </p>
.. raw:: html

   </p>

Purpose
-------

With the need for online learning becoming increasingly higher,
efficient means of reaching educators has become extremely important. We
implemented a discord bot to help instructors automate the process of
their Office Hours through Discord.

We created this bot with the goal of allowing students to effectively
communicate with their instructors, with the option to be able to ask
their peers for help while they wait.

Overview
--------

**OH-Bot** is a server managment automation bot. This means that tasks
like notifying and moving students when they are ready to been seen are
handled by **OH-Bot**

**OH-Bot** is a *self-hotsted* bot - meaning that you will need to host
and maintain your own instance. See `Quick Start <#quickstart>`__ to
get started.

The standard OH-Session protocol that we follow: 

#. Instructors Opens OH-Queue 
#. Students enter queue and enter waiting room 
#. Instructors dequeue students 
#. Instructors close queue when OH-Session is over

Waiting Queue System
--------------------

**OH-Bot** implements a simple *first come first serve* queue where
student are allowed to enter and leave the queue whenever they like
while OH is being held.

Server `Template <https://discord.new/kVY9nyrwzV2N>`__
------------------------------------------------------

**OH-Bot** makes use of Discord’s Server Template feature

There are three roles in the **OH-Bot** server

-  Admin - total control of bot functionality and server interfaces
-  Instructor - control over OH sessions and locked channels
-  Student - ability to interface with OH-Queue

Commands
~~~~~~~~

**OH-Bot** commands have access level based on sender roles

-  ``/open`` - Access Role: [Admin, Instructor]

   -  Open the OH-queue for students to join using ``/eq``

-  ``/close`` - Access Role: [Admin, Instructor]

   -  Close the OH-queue, stop students from entering the queue
   -  Students that were in the queue before closing will still be
      regisitered for OH

-  ``/clear /cq`` - Access Role: [Admin, Instructor]

   -  Empties the OH-queue of students

-  ``/enterqueue /eq`` - Access Role: [Admin, Instructor, Student]

   -  Enter sender into the OH-queue

-  ``/leavequeue /lq`` - Access Role: [Admin, Instructor, Student]

   -  Removes sender from the OH-queue

-  ``/dequeue /dq`` - Access Role: [Admin, Instructor]

   -  Removes next student from the queue and moves them into the voice
      channel the sender is currently connected to.

-  ``/help`` - Access Role: [Admin, Instructor]

   -  Sends a DM to the sender containing the above commands and their
      behavior relative to sender access level

Requirements
------------

-  `Git <https://git-scm.com/>`__ (Optional if using packaged release)
-  `Python 3.7 <https://www.python.org/downloads/>`__ (or higher)

   -  `Pip <https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing/>`__

-  `Discord <https://discordapp.com/>`__ app & account

Quick Start
--------------------------

Clone the source code

.. code:: bash

   git clone https://github.com/ECS-OH-Bot/OH-Bot/tree/master && cd OH-Bot

Follow the instructions
`here <https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/v1.3.3/discord.html#creating-a-bot-account>`__
for obtaining a token for your instance of the Bot

Run the setup script

.. code:: bash

   ./setup.sh --name {ENV_FILE_NAME}

Adjust the role hierarchy.

For security/privacy purposes, bot/scripts are not allowed to adjust themselves upward the role hierarchy. This must be done by hand to allow features of the bot.

.. image:: ./assets/adjustRole.gif

Run the script to start up the bot

.. code:: bash

   ./run{ENV_FILE_NAME}.sh

`Docs <https://ecs-oh-bot.github.io/OH-Bot/docs/build/html/index.html>`__
=========================================================================

License
-------

Released under the `GNU GPL
v3 <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html>`__ license.

``Copyright (C) 2020  Grant Gilson, Noah Rose Ledesma, Stephen Ott``

Commit message:

Minor updates to clarify how to add the bot to your server

README.rst, after:

.. |DiscordLogo| image:: https://img.icons8.com/color/48/000000/discord-logo.png
   :target: https://discordapp.com

|DiscordLogo| OH-Bot
======================================

The Discord Office Hour Butler
------------------------------

.. raw:: html

   <p align=center style="font-size:large">
      <a href=#purpose>Purpose</a> • 
      <a href=#overview>Overview</a> • 
      <a href=#quickstart>Quick Start</a> • 
      <a href=https://ecs-oh-bot.github.io/OH-Bot/docs/build/html/index.html>Docs</a> •
      <a href=#license>License</a>
   </p>
.. raw:: html

   </p>

Purpose
-------

With the need for online learning becoming increasingly higher,
efficient means of reaching educators has become extremely important. We
implemented a discord bot to help instructors automate the process of
their Office Hours through Discord.

We created this bot with the goal of allowing students to effectively
communicate with their instructors, with the option to be able to ask
their peers for help while they wait.

Overview
--------

**OH-Bot** is a server managment automation bot. This means that tasks
like notifying and moving students when they are ready to been seen are
handled by **OH-Bot**

**OH-Bot** is a *self-hotsted* bot - meaning that you will need to host
and maintain your own instance. See `Quick Start <#quickstart>`__ to
get started.

The standard OH-Session protocol that we follow: 

#. Instructors Opens OH-Queue 
#. Students enter queue and enter waiting room 
#. Instructors dequeue students 
#. Instructors close queue when OH-Session is over

Waiting Queue System
--------------------

**OH-Bot** implements a simple *first come first serve* queue where
student are allowed to enter and leave the queue whenever they like
while OH is being held.

Server `Template <https://discord.new/kVY9nyrwzV2N>`__
------------------------------------------------------

**OH-Bot** makes use of Discord’s Server Template feature

There are three roles in the **OH-Bot** server

-  Admin - total control of bot functionality and server interfaces
-  Instructor - control over OH sessions and locked channels
-  Student - ability to interface with OH-Queue

Commands
~~~~~~~~

**OH-Bot** commands have access level based on sender roles

-  ``/open`` - Access Role: [Admin, Instructor]

   -  Open the OH-queue for students to join using ``/eq``

-  ``/close`` - Access Role: [Admin, Instructor]

   -  Close the OH-queue, stop students from entering the queue
   -  Students that were in the queue before closing will still be
      regisitered for OH

-  ``/clear /cq`` - Access Role: [Admin, Instructor]

   -  Empties the OH-queue of students

-  ``/enterqueue /eq`` - Access Role: [Admin, Instructor, Student]

   -  Enter sender into the OH-queue

-  ``/leavequeue /lq`` - Access Role: [Admin, Instructor, Student]

   -  Removes sender from the OH-queue

-  ``/dequeue /dq`` - Access Role: [Admin, Instructor]

   -  Removes next student from the queue and moves them into the voice
      channel the sender is currently connected to.

-  ``/help`` - Access Role: [Admin, Instructor]

   -  Sends a DM to the sender containing the above commands and their
      behavior relative to sender access level

Requirements
------------

-  `Git <https://git-scm.com/>`__ (Optional if using packaged release)
-  `Python 3.7 <https://www.python.org/downloads/>`__ (or higher)

   -  `Pip <https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing/>`__

-  `Discord <https://discordapp.com/>`__ app & account

Quick Start
--------------------------

Instantiate an instance of the server `Template <https://discord.new/kVY9nyrwzV2N>`__ in Discord 


Follow discord.py `docs <https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/discord.html>`__ on creating and adding a bot to your server.

Clone the source code

.. code:: bash

   git clone https://github.com/ECS-OH-Bot/OH-Bot/tree/master && cd OH-Bot

Follow the instructions
`here <https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/v1.3.3/discord.html#creating-a-bot-account>`__
for obtaining a token for your instance of the Bot

Run the setup script

.. code:: bash

   ./setup.sh --name {ENV_FILE_NAME}

Adjust the role hierarchy.

For security/privacy purposes, bot/scripts are not allowed to adjust themselves upward the role hierarchy. This must be done by hand to allow features of the bot.

.. image:: ./assets/adjustRole.gif

Run the script to start up the bot

.. code:: bash

   ./run{ENV_FILE_NAME}.sh

`Docs <https://ecs-oh-bot.github.io/OH-Bot/docs/build/html/index.html>`__
=========================================================================

License
-------

Released under the `GNU GPL
v3 <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html>`__ license.

``Copyright (C) 2020  Grant Gilson, Noah Rose Ledesma, Stephen Ott``
